
Understanding ASP.NET Middleware :

What is middleware ?
middleware is the term used for the components that are combined to form the request pipeline . The request pipeline is arranged like a chain, and when a new request arrives, it is passed to the first middleware component in the chain. This component inspects the request and decides whether to handle it and generate a response or to pass it on to the next component in the chain. Once a request has been handled, the response that will be returned to the client is passed back along the chain, which allows all of the earlier components to inspect or modify it.
NOTE Request passes from top to bottom, Response passes from bottom to top.

There are 4 types of middleware:
a) ContentEditing middleware
b) ShortCircuiting Middleware
c) Request Editing middleware
d) Response editing middleware

ContentEditing Middleware : Example in Github
Middleware components don’t implement an interface or derive from a common base class. Instead,they define a constructor that takes a RequestDelegate object and define an Invoke method. The RequestDelegate object represents the next middleware component in the chain, and the Invoke method is called when ASP.NET receives an HTTP request.

app.UseMiddleware<ContentMiddleware>()
Custom middleware components are registered with the UseMiddleware extension method within the Configure method. The UseMiddleware method uses a type parameter to specify the middleware class.

ShortCircuiting Middleware :
The next type of middleware intercepts requests before they reach the content generation components in order to short-circuit the pipeline process, often for performance purposes.
The term short-circuiting is used because this type of middleware doesn’t always forward requests to the next component in the chain.

Request-Editing Middleware
The next type of middleware component examines doesn’t generate a response. Instead, it changes requests before they reach other components later in the chain. The kind of middleware is mainly used for platform
integration to enrich the ASP.NET Core representation of an HTTP request with platform-specific features. It can also be used to prepare requests so that they are easier to process by subsequent components.

Response-Editing Middleware
The final type of middleware operates on the responses generated by other components in the pipeline. This is useful for logging details of requests and their responses or for dealing with errors.


NOTE : Browser Link : https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/client-side/using-browserlink?tabs=aspnetcore2x

Understanding How the Configure Method Is Invoked : pg 398

Dependency Injection in ASP.NET Core : https://dotnetcoretutorials.com/2017/03/30/third-party-dependency-injection-asp-net-core/
Singleton Scoped Transient : https://joonasw.net/view/aspnet-core-di-deep-dive


